hey everybody Welcome to behind the ads
and in today's episode we have a very
special guest Isaac Ware the director of
demand generation at user gems welcome
Isaac okay great uh great to great to be
on the show I'm so pumped to have you uh
let's just start off at a 10 000 foot
view what does user gems do and who do
you serve definitely yeah so we help
generate Pipeline and I think
everybody's hearing that and everybody's
trying to position themselves as a
pipeline generation tool but we've
really niched in on tracking customer
job changes those Champions that are
leaving customer accounts moving to
other accounts that you could
potentially sell into but then the
second piece is surfacing the buying
committee at all your target accounts so
let's say that champion moves from Cisco
over to pendo
um we're going to surface that job
change let you know that they're there
but then also surface that entire buying
committee around that person so they can
help refer you into that company you
have multiple warms or Paths of uh warm
entry into that account
got you I'm I'm so curious how the tech
works just hearing you like talk about
that but a question for another day yeah
so essentially you guys are tracking job
changes and then you're letting people
know you're kind of Illuminating the
buying committee side of things so those
are your two biggest use cases that
you're that you're really trying to
focus on yeah and the thing I like folks
doing too is it's not even just like the
letting you know
um at this point we're huge on the Opera
operationalizing that data
um you give a team massive lists of
leads they're not going to do a whole
lot with it but the more you can
automate the more you can system ties
the more you could turn into playbooks
having running it all the time it it's
amazing the pipeline difference between
automated versus trying to get a team on
board with actioning a massive lists of
data when I was at metadata a lot of
people know this but I was a CSM for a
little bit out of out of urgency we
needed help like we needed help to kind
of get you know it was like early days
and I was it was like when I had first
started I was a CSM I was a head of AD
operations I was like doing everything
and I was managing clients I was running
their campaigns everything and I
remember my time there that when a
champion left how critical that was to
the impact of potentially renewing that
deal
it was it's amazing too on the flip side
as well of Champions joining your
accounts too for opportunities to expand
so yeah tracking that for churn risk but
also looking for more opportunities to
expand that account as well
that's awesome so what is your paid
strategy look like at a high level at
user gems
yeah definitely so I come from an agency
background so I came in heavy on
Facebook Google ads YouTube ads
everything
um and initially I started with kind of
that focus and a lighter on LinkedIn
just because I had been a little bit
more jaded around the performance of
LinkedIn how expensive could be it's uh
some some of the targeting stuff things
like that
um now though it would be the seaside
and then and then you transition over to
B2B and then you got I was heavy on b2c
but still had a lot of B2B and some SAS
experience
um but again had still had some
reservations around LinkedIn before this
but again ran some of that now we're
switched over to like about 95 LinkedIn
spend
um our product plays really well with
that with the data that's coming out of
our products directly into LinkedIn
um so it's a it's an official channel
for us in a huge pipeline generator
uh folks if if you have not seen user
gems ads highly recommend taking a look
you guys one of the things I wanted to
compliment you on is that you do really
well that a lot of SAS companies I feel
don't do as good as you guys do is
you're great at using people in your
creative and even in your landing pages
and just embedding social proof a lot of
your creative is a video in feed of a
customer talking about their experience
I went to one of your landing pages and
the first thing I see above the fold is
a social like a testimonial on the right
hand side I think a lot of SAS companies
really miss that they don't let others
speak on their behalf of their product
and they just lead with like product
mock-ups and like animations of their
product but they don't like you don't
understand what's the end benefit from
it so I'm curious to get your take how
have you gotten to this point where
you're using social proof so much and
you're creative and just like your
marketing is there a reason behind that
yeah I think the main thing is I think
it's that bias too coming from either
Ecom or anything like that Ecom some of
the top top performing ads right now are
users talking about a product
um and there's a reason for that is like
people want to be able to relate to a
person so providing that broad reach of
individual contributors VPS CMOS
um head of Revenue CFOs things like that
adding this wide range of people people
will start consuming a lot of this stuff
um and a lot of the time they won't know
they're relating to a person or a
specific pain point that that person is
talking about so really really impactful
um and then on the flip side too pushing
ads with individual contributors some of
our top ads come from AES talking about
using the product and the AES can't buy
our product
um it's always director level plus
um but be able to hear those relatable
pain points helps yes the director level
when they hear it but also spark some
internal conversations where AE are
asking for the product
um I think what sparked that for me was
I mean listening to one of our AES talk
about why she wanted to work at user
gems was she was like I saw user gems
and I would have personally shelled out
the full contract price just to have
that for myself because it would have
been worth it
um so hearing that makes it really flip
the flip the script on exactly how
you're approaching testimonial ads
that's incredible you guys have a lot of
different ads that you're running uh for
example I see carousels I see single
image but not so much the ad type is
what's interesting to me is the play
behind the ad and who you're addressing
and how you're targeting do you mind
just giving a run through what is your
approach to campaigns look like because
right now you're investing 95 on
LinkedIn
definitely yeah so we have we have more
of like a traditional buyer Journey
campaign group where we're walking
people through some of the pains some of
the awareness around the product
testimonials social proofing things like
that that's all still fed by user gems
data so I actually use because user gems
is surfacing the buying committee at all
of our Target accounts I'm pushing those
right into LinkedIn for my top funnel
targeting kind of pulling through people
through that way
um but a lot of the supplemental more
deal acceleration and more small
audience campaigns are what really stand
out for a lot of people so one of the
main ones is job change ads so as soon
as somebody changes his job we have
email automation going out to them some
manual touch points there too but we're
also pairing that with ads to stay in
front of them just remind them of
previous success so we're saying hey you
used this in the past we miss you but
wasn't that great what happened at the
last company with with user jams all
that pipeline you generated so reminding
of that previous success the second
group there too is a lot of
multi-threading now so we have those
buying groups at those companies sitting
in our CRM sales have has been
multi-threading for for decades um but
we're kind of you guys yeah can you go
for it can you just explain what that
word means to the audience
multi-threading definitely yeah so as
soon as an opportunity opens up you want
to start pulling in other buying
committee other personas that you need
to close that deal so sales does this so
if sales on our team opens up an
opportunity with marketing we want sales
buy-in we want rev Ops buy-in we want
csms now sometimes to to be bought in on
this play
um so trying to pull those other other
people in so how sales teams use our
product is they have that open
opportunity user gems has that buying
committee sitting in the CRM they'll
start looking at who they need to
involve in this deal reaching out
through email to pull them in
got it got it and this is this is at the
contact level because you you know the
individual had that job change Etc
and then you're pushing that into
LinkedIn through a customer list with
user gems I see yeah and we're doing
that at the Persona level so the
audiences are still big enough
um but you can still narrow down the
messaging a little bit more so we're
saying hey sales your team is talking
with us about trying this new untapped
Revenue Channel
um do you want to join the conversation
um so that's how we're approaching I see
I see so you're you're targeting an
account that you're you know you guys
are breaking into and then
you're trying to get more people within
that account and other functions to
become aware of the deal that's being
you know that's in progress so that you
know there's a greater likelihood for it
to close yeah definitely and there's
some interesting plays here too around
like removing blockers so some people or
some personas you don't necessarily want
to pull into the deal actively but you
want to approach them with really
targeted material so example is like
CFOs CFOs
are typical blockers on deals so you
don't want to like actively be pulling
those into the deal because your sales
team would just absolutely hate you if
you started pulling those in
um so what we're doing is pulling
testimonials from CFOs we're talking to
pain points that we're hearing CFOs
bring up on calls we're serving those as
soon as the opportunity opens so we can
stay in front of them kind of break down
their barriers a little bit so by the
time user gems comes up internally
they're ready to have that conversation
they know who user gems is they know
got it so I just want to break this down
because there's a lot of nuance here and
it's genius by the way what you're
saying so you guys are doing deal
acceleration campaigns right so people
are actively in a conversation with your
sales team right they're considering
user gems and what you guys are doing is
instead of just traditional acceleration
where you're just covering the account
and everybody at the account you're
you're taking it a step further where
now you're segmenting that account by
specific buying personas within that
committee and then you're showing them
social proof so in the case of the CFO
is like you're showing them testimonials
from other CFOs to kind of help
alleviate their concerns right so
is that a good summation of what you
just said yeah and I think a huge piece
of it too is that like sales marketing
alignment which I'm we're all sick of
hearing sales marketing alignment but uh
more of just the efficiency side of it
is like the exact same people that are
seeing my ads are the exact same people
that are going to be getting emails from
my sales team or adrs on the on the
Outreach side with ABM for us adrs are
reaching out to the same people that are
seeing the ads so it's more of an
efficiency play so those audiences sit
around that 10 000 to 13 000 mark on the
multi-thread side of things
um so they're small enough to easily
reach at a low cost and really saturate
that's that's awesome how are you guys
measuring success with these campaigns
because I'm sure somebody listening to
this right now is like well you're not
going to have a direct last touch click
right I'm not going to have a form-fill
opt-in these people are already talking
to you how do you know the ads are even
doing anything are you just wasting your
time
um yeah so that was one of the main
problems we saw when we first started
the program is we were constantly
getting I actually just got off a sales
call that mentioned this is we're
constantly getting people screenshotting
internal conversations or screenshotting
ads on their phone saving it for later
to talk with their team about it so how
we approached This was
um more from a CRM perspective so we did
an A B test all of our accounts were
marked one two three or four ones and
twos got multi-threading threes and
fours did not so as soon as any of those
opportunities opened up we were pushing
them into multi-thread or doing nothing
with them on the paid media multi-thread
side of things so we were able to run
that test for long enough to get it
statistically significant but the
results were 31 higher win rates 25
bigger deal sizes 67 percent more
prospects involved in the deal which is
a lot of the driving force percent of
those behind those other metrics and
then 17 shorter sales Cycles
that's so epic I I hope everybody takes
away from this the like one of the
coolest things that I love about ads is
a lot of people when they think about
paid media they just think
conversion right driving a direct I you
know I want to drive leads somebody
fills out my form like that's all they
think of or maybe they think in terms of
awareness but people don't realize how
many applications paid media has like
you could even use paid media to
validate a new business model right like
a new product you want to launch to the
market so you guys have built this
entire strategy around deal acceleration
and these audiences like you mentioned
Isaac are around 13 000 audience size on
average you're probably going to tap out
you know I don't know what your cost is
but 100 bucks a day you're probably
you're probably good you know I mean you
can call it a wrap
um and you're noticing this velocity
increase in terms of the the companies
that are receiving the multi-threading
so for everybody listening to this if
you've only ever thought about using
your paid dollars to drive top of funnel
awareness or conversion
especially you know in today's world and
I know we're all sick of hearing more
with less you know like with the whole
economy situation and all this stuff
you can use paid media to be a partner
to sales and help accelerate those deals
I know it's it's really interesting and
it's the the sales marketing alignment
is that there's such a such a BS term in
a lot of ways because nobody actually
does anything with it they just talk
about it it's like yeah we we coordinate
things but until you can like actually
automate that relationship I really
don't think it's that effective until
you can automate the relationship in
some ways um or at least who you're
reaching who you're targeting everything
like that and if you want to automate
the relationship go to YouTube
oh that's awesome
um cool so I we touched on a lot there
we kind of covered as well like the
audience building component right so
using user gems that's you're pulling in
the contact account level data and then
you're leveraging LinkedIn profile
targeting to then filter on top of that
to understand to be able to do the
multi-threading for the specific people
within that committee you want to go
after
um in terms of just overall reporting
and measurement so you guys ran this
test and you you know now okay this
works we're going to continue to invest
in this what does it look like now from
ongoing reporting perspective
yeah I think a lot of it is just looking
at our overall metrics I mean now that
we know it works from some level we're a
small smaller company and we have low
bandwidth so a lot of it is ongoing
reporting might drop down a little bit
we know it works we're seeing the
results of it so it might just be one of
those ongoing campaigns that we don't
necessarily measure the the ongoing
impact like month over month I know at
some point we will get to that point but
it's just one of those like lowest
hanging fruit for us is going out trying
new things to accelerate stuff
um try new campaigns everything like
that and then I think once we build out
the team everything like that it's gonna
be a lot cleaner reporting gotcha and uh
for that that 95 of your spend is most
of it just focus on these
multi-threading acceleration campaigns a
lot of ours is it's a pretty even split
I would say multi-threads only around 10
of our total budget
um so like you said 100 bucks a day you
can cover a lot of contacts um within a
really focused audience like that
um we have three Persona ones like that
but a lot of it is spent buyer journey
and demand capture so we're using that
buying group to send incentivized ads
um infeed and convo
um so we're still doing some of that
stuff to actually capture that and give
them exit points during the buyer
Journey
um I just hopped off a sales call where
the guy said he had screenshotted like
three or four of our ads and I was like
well did you did you ever click through
I was just kind of digging to see see
what Inspire Journey was like he's like
now I never clicked through of saving it
for a later note
um and then an ADR emailed him um so
that's a lot of what we hear is like
they're screenshotting our ads and then
they see an incentivized ad and it helps
them act on it and kind of gets it off
their to-do list and more into an action
same with adr's emailing adrs kind of
pull them into that action so again paid
media if your ADR team rolls into
marketing it's a lot easier to to handle
that that hit to the paid media not
getting the full attribution
um but yeah it's a team sport right at
the end of the day business is a team
sport right every function within
business is a team sport I think it's
really easy to forget that one of the
things that I always do with new clients
when I'm helping them out and building
their programs their paid programs is do
you have a universal
agreed upon attribution process as a
team right like how we as a team agree
we are going to measure attribution and
kind of try to remove because
everybody's going to favor the model
that in which they look the best right
but at the end of the day if the
business isn't growing
um so that's that's awesome the
on the incentivized ads I I noticed you
guys have like a hundred and five
dollars
as your Amazon gift card amount I've
done a lot of incentivized ads uh in my
time at metadata after metadata just
with a bunch of clients and Advising
clients I'm curious if you guys have
tested different price points of the
incentive yes we did we did a little bit
of testing on our own and then
um just to talk you with other demands
is like everybody's running these tests
on gift card amounts and things like
that we heard it from one of our one of
our close Partners we decided to give it
a test and it ended up producing
slightly better than 100 or in the 90s
range so it's one of those uh yeah it's
one of those interesting little
disruption things of that's an odd
amount and it catches your attention a
little bit more it's a good way to you
know if you have a solid demo process
and you get a lot of aha moments and
people get excited when they see your
your product for the first time you know
that's where incentives are really
powerful the challenge of course is
you're going to get a lot of people
early on that are necessarily you know
have that you know that urgency to
convert within this quarter but that's a
good opportunity for you to start a
relationship with them and then you know
nurture them six nine months down the
road hopefully they remember you because
you've been saying you know top of Mind
especially you guys because you're doing
all this awareness and then acceleration
as well
yeah definitely it's one of those things
we really have to before you launch it
talk with your sales team and kind of
let them know some of the people that
come in might be bottom of funnel some
of them that come in this may be their
first interaction with the brand so
really kind of ask those Discovery
questions but also have a really
educational Approach at the beginning of
those because the acceleration of their
knowledge of your product is so much
faster in those sales calls where they
can ask questions get answers right back
really build out their understanding the
product versus consuming content ads
things like that so it's definitely a
different approach that they uh they
have to be aware of yeah and when it
comes to brainstorming creative and copy
do you guys have uh like a documented
process that's really helped you
no documented process so I do most of
our creative and copy
um so for me it's a lot of it's just
hopping the hopping to canva starting
with a goal of the campaign some of the
major pain points around it um I usually
build creative first and then work work
towards copy after that
um but really focusing on those pain
points like even in some of our
incentivized or most of our incentivized
ads we're still hitting on some of those
pain points we mentioned top of funnel
um either if you're missing out or some
like really tough pains people are
having right now with market conditions
even when we're asking for that demo
request kind of exit or demand capture
Point
um so focus on pain trying to stand out
I mean it's it's so easy to stand out if
you're if you're basically if you go on
LinkedIn and start scrolling look for
ads that you never would have looked at
um and say that is nothing like what our
ads should look like and then you keep
notes of all the bad ads and then kind
of a sniff test of does this ad look
like this okay we probably probably
shouldn't run it um
swipe file yeah yeah you know it's it's
funny when it comes to paid social
specifically there's there's this
Obsession of like how do I stand out how
do I create ads that break patterns in
with paid social
the cat you actually want to take like a
kind of a different mindset where you
don't want your ads to necessarily stand
out because ads that stand out scream
I'm an ad and people don't like ads
where with paid social the goal really
is to blend in you want people to see
your ad but not realize it was an ad
until after the fact because it looks so
native to the platform and it and it to
you this is where like what you
mentioned earlier Isaac would like user
generated content right it looks
authentic it's real it belongs on my
feed uh and I think a lot of times
people take like a you know round Peg
Square whole situation and they just try
to jam their ad in the feed and it just
completely looks off you know yeah it's
that's actually one thing we tested at
one point and had insane click-through
rates on LinkedIn was actually filming
in Tick Tock so we had uh somebody on
our team film film an ad basically them
talking head talking through the product
use case for csms
um but recorded in Tick Tock we left the
tick tock logo on there and ran it as a
LinkedIn ad and we were sitting at like
a 3.5 click-through rate on on the app
crazy
um that's right I think it I think it
Blends in mentally when you're scrolling
through because we're used to seeing
content like that elsewhere so when
you're on LinkedIn it just kind of looks
familiar in a way not native to LinkedIn
but yeah are you guys doing a lot of
focus on on like demand creation and you
know trying to push content to Apple
funnel any of that so we're actually
really light on content right now and
it's uh I think it's more of a speed to
pipeline thing right now of like we're
we're running really efficiently right
now
um so we're light on we don't have
anything for email capture for
downloading content things like that we
don't push content super heavy on paid
media we usually
um see that happen through either people
click on the ads and then start their
kind of journey through our site we
offer all our playbooks for free we have
some really solid content things like
that
um I would say something definitely want
to get better at and push more of later
on
um but it's kind of a bandwidth and low
hanging fruit combo yeah no no right on
I
a lot of folks that are getting started
with demand creation with paid media
um they'll be like well what what do we
do here
and it's just for paid media for demand
creation is just an extension of your
content strategy that's it you know if
you don't have a good content strategy
in place you don't have a unique point
of view
all that you need to get that sorted
first all paid media is going to do it's
like the tip of the spear it's just
going to take that asset and distribute
it you know a lot of times clients would
be like what's the ad type the ad format
for the content ads
and I'm like wait a second no no you're
missing it I'm like when you create
content organically it's the same thing
we're just taking the same post and
we're boosting it and we're just
guaranteeing eyeballs and like
visibility and distribution on it
um yeah it's
it's so interesting to hear you know one
of my favorite things about doing this
series is just like talking to awesome
marketers like yourself and just hearing
how everybody has such a unique approach
like there's parallels across different
companies but it's just a great reminder
to everybody listening to it's like at
the end of the day
it's not what you do but it's how you do
it and like the level of detail and the
thought process and the alignment and
all these nuances are so easy to be
missed but it's what makes the
difference at the end of the day you
know
yeah no it's it's huge and it's uh
everybody always wants this the secret
sauce but again it's just
sticking to the basics really I mean the
basics of marketing and uh testing a lot
of stuff
what are some things that you are
excited about in terms of like is it new
channels or like new tactics that you
have on the horizon that are on your
experiment one day list
yeah definitely
um I think I'm excited for the the
re-expansion to other channels
um we have LinkedIn figured out really
well I've gotten Facebook to work in the
past but I just pulled off of it just
because of efficiency stuff right now
um so for me a lot of it is pushing some
of these playbooks over to Facebook to
YouTube some other channels like that
um just just experimenting more um yeah
if you ever want some tips on YouTube I
got you that's definitely my favorite
channel of all time it's crazy the the
cost per views you can get on YouTube uh
it's it's dramatic like I have this one
client right now that their average cost
per view on YouTube is around seven
cents
seven cents and a view is counted on
YouTube if somebody watches at least 30
seconds of your video
that's solid yeah you can't you can't
compete with that on the on LinkedIn
most of the time that's interesting yeah
and then an average like I know like in
B2B we're obsessed with with display and
are you guys doing anything on the
programmatic side with this so I'm light
on so we actually no Pro no programmatic
no display right now so yeah
gotcha uh well average good CTR on the
display ad is like 0.05 percent
like good CTR on a YouTube ad is like
two percent
so you're getting tremendous engagement
in relation to display and you're
getting
um you know like ridiculous cost
and what type of content are you pushing
on uh YouTube
yeah the Trap you want to avoid is you
want to avoid taking your LinkedIn
videos or your Facebook videos in your
case either you're on LinkedIn majority
but you want to avoid just taking your
LinkedIn videos and slapping it as a
YouTube ad because YouTube is unique in
the sense of with YouTube the whole name
of the game is you're trying to keep a
view rate low and your CTR High because
you get charged if somebody watches 30
seconds of your video so you want to
create a video that is unique to YouTube
where the first five to ten seconds are
optimized so that you get the wrong
viewer to skip your ad like a lot of
times people they'll tell me like oh I
hate YouTube ads I always skip that
thing and I'm like great that's the
point you know what I mean like that
means they're not paying for it ever
since I told my friends this they're
like out of spite they'll watch videos
um it's terrible but but the name of the
game with YouTube is like how can your
and with YouTube targeting is broader
so you your your creative itself the
video must act like act as like a
targeting mechanism that you know will
attract the right Prospect and it'll
repel the wrong one so that like if I'm
not somebody who's in sales right I'm
not going to be interested in your ad
and I should be able to click out as
soon as possible that's a really
interesting tactic because I started
using that late stage Facebook when
thing when their targeting sort of
getting bad everything like that
actually started opening up targeting to
completely broad no limitations but then
really focusing in on ad copy ad
creative to kind of basically make it
learn that
um so that's that's actually it rolls
over to YouTube too I love that this is
this is how we like this is how it was
done I always use the example of like
imagine Claude Hopkins back in the 1800s
like the man who created the coupon you
know what I mean like how did they get
in front of their ICP outside of you
know just like geographical targeting
which is what they had it was the
messaging right and like the that is
like kind of like the Lost Art of
marketing because we're so obsessed with
targeting and precision that we forget
our ad itself
should act as some sort of targeting
mechanism that should speak to the right
person right and and everybody else just
wants to run away from it I love that
all right Isaac uh
two final questions what does your Tech
stack look like for paid media
it is user gems um that's that's our
Tech stack right now so we don't we
don't run any intent stuff outside of
buyers changing jobs that's that sort of
attempt more relationship intent that
user gem Services uh but no six cents
demand base anything like that um so
just user gems and a lot of effort yeah
especially to stand up all those those
unique campaigns yeah
um I don't have you ever considered
hiring like a VA or something you know
that would be huge to just help offload
all that work yeah it's definitely one
of those things we we use it a little
bit on the ABM side of things because we
run 300 one-to-ones every single month
um so we definitely definitely utilize a
little bit there um but for the rest of
it's one of those once it's set up
luckily it's it's not too bad to manage
um and it's those constantly refreshing
small audiences so fatigue is low yeah
sweet all right final question what
advice would you give anyone listening
that is starting up a paid media program
at their company
I would say spend a lot of time in sales
calls or as close to sales calls as you
can get so spend a lot of time in gong
um spend a lot of time talking with your
sales team and then post launched ask
them like feedback ask ADR is what
they're seeing or is is quality High
when these with through this type of
campaign is
a lot of communication there
um and then on the flip side to be
really blunt with your messaging your
messaging shouldn't be
um vague at all in a paid me and I think
this lines up with what you were saying
of like that should be part of your
targeting and way too often I'm like
scrolling through Linkedin and I see ads
where I'm like I'm sitting there like
looking at the ad I'm like what what do
they what do they actually do
um yeah and the longer I've done this
more I've shifted over to being really
blunt of like are you still trying to
track job changes manually and like
multi-thread manually
um just asking some of those like hard
like straight to the point questions say
exactly what you do what pain points you
solve
um don't don't make it too fancy be
really blunt so people can instantly
understand what you're selling
so much value thank you so much for
sharing your insights Isaac if people
wanted to connect with you where can
they find you yeah definitely uh shoot
me a message on LinkedIn
um always happy to hop on calls talk
marketing demand
um what we're doing over here at user
gems um but yeah
all right thank you so much for joining
us I'll see you guys in the next one see
ya